for much of today we'll be concerned
with trying to write a function we're
gonna call max so what does Max do it
takes any array of any type whatsoever
and it returns the maximum item so they
give it this array 5 3 1 7 the max
function will return 7 they give it
three dogs steer Elise and Benjamin it
will find the dog with the largest size
let's say and it will turn in this case
Benjamin so I've actually already
written a function that does this and
your question now is going to be figure
out mm what is wrong if anything with it
now turns out at least one thing's gonna
be wrong so I'll walk through this code
really quickly before letting me think
about it so this is a main method that
basically does what's on the previous
slide creates an array of dogs with the
data set shown previously calls da cause
max dogs and then casts it as the result
as a dog and then finally that dog barks
then the actual function looks something
like this it is a function that returns
something of type object it takes an
array of objects and the goal here is to
take advantage of the fact that every
class in Java ultimately extends the
object class so we work our way through
the code we've set up a maximum index
that indicates our best-known largest
thing yeah you know what I mean
and then for each possible item it says
is that item bigger than the best-known
if so then make a note of where it is
and then finally return the largest item
so your question now is to think about
this think about what compilation errors
might pop up and I've highlighted three
areas you might want to consider okay
assuming you've paused and thought about
it this code right here we'll start
working our way through the main
function the first question is in when
we return an object can we cast it as a
dog and in this case the answer is yes
this is actually the best most typical
case for casting where you and I both
know that a particular thing is actually
a dog but the static type is object so
we cast it back to dog that's a very
normal thing to do with casting how
about this whenever we look at this box
what's this box supposed to highlight
well
we're passing in a
of dogs but it expects an array of
objects so does that work well I haven't
actually said but yes indeed because a
dog is an object an array of dogs is
also an array of objects so Java will
consider that totally fine finally we
get to this line right here if items I
is greater than items Max Dex and this
basically assumes that somehow the
greater operator works with arbitrary
object types but in fact it does not so
that's going to be the issue we have to
face so what do we do about it
well one possibility is we could write a
max method in the dog class and in
effect we're giving up on our dream of
having a one true maximum function right
here so what would that look like maybe
I'm just going to show it because that's
this isn't a great approach but one
approaches we would in the dog class
itself have a max dog method that takes
an array of dogs and returns the largest
so if you wanted to use this function it
might look something like this dog dogs
equals new dog D 1 D 2 T 3 so make the
array and then finally we do dog max dog
the array of dogs and here we also avoid
the need for the cast which is kind of
nice now the obvious big problem with
this is that we've given up with the
dream of our one true max function but
there's a more deep there's a deeper
more fundamental reason so what is it
well the issue is that let's suppose we
have a cat class now or a horse class or
an octopus or whatever else and all of
those classes we also need a max horse
or max octopus function if we want to do
the minimum or the median or something
like that again we have this repetition
of work over and over and so what we in
effect have if we give up on our dream
is a bunch of redundant code so now the
question is knowing that objects cannot
be compared with greater than because
how could they how would Java know if it
should use the string or the size how
could we modify this code here so that
it actually does work and let's I'll
give you a clue we're talking a lot
about inheritance here and think about
that a little so if we wanted to take
this code Maximizer that Java and make
it work what could we do I'll spoil it
in the next video